.. role:: python(code)
   :language: python

Agent Catalog Concepts
======================

Agent Catalog targets three (non-mutually-exclusive) types of users:

**Agent Builders**
    Those responsible for creating prompts and agents.

**Tool Builders**
    Those responsible for creating tools.

**Agent Analysts**
    Those responsible for analyzing agent performance.

In this short guide, we detail the workflow each type of user follows when using Agent Catalog.
We assume that you have already installed the ``agentc`` package.
If you have not, please refer to the :doc:`Installation <install>` page.

Metrics Driven Development
--------------------------

The Agent Catalog package is not just a tool/prompt catalog, it's a foundation for building agents using metrics-driven
development.
Agent builders will follow this workflow:

1. **Sample Downloading**: Download the starter agent from the :file:`templates/with_langgraph` directory.

2. **Project Initializing**: Initialize your project as a Git repository and invoke the Agent Catalog initialization
   command.
   *Don't forget to setup the appropriate environment variables!*

   .. code-block:: bash

     # Initialize a new Git repository with an initial commit.
     git init
     git add *; git add .gitignore .env.example .pre-commit-config.yaml
     git commit -m "Initial commit"

     # Initialize your local and remote Agent Catalog instances.
     cp .env.example .env; vi .env
     agentc init

3. **Agent Building**: The sample agent system is meant to be a reference for building your own agents.
   You will need to modify the agent to fit your use case.

   - Agent Catalog integrates with agent applications in two main areas:
     i) by providing tools and prompts to the agent *framework* via :python:`agentc.Catalog` instances, and ii) by
     providing analytics capabilities to the agent via :python:`agentc.Span` instances.
     The sample agent system demonstrates how to use both of these classes.

   - Agent Catalog providers will always return plain ol' Python functions.
     SQL++ tools, semantic search tools, and HTTP request tools undergo some code *generation* (in the traditional
     sense, not using LLMs) to yield Python functions that will easily slot into any agent framework.
     Python tools indexed by :code:`agentc` will be returned as-is.

     .. note::

        Users must ensure that these tools already exist in the agent application's Git repository, or that the Python
        source code tied to the tool can be easily imported using Python's :python:`import` statement.

3. **Prompt Building**: Follow the steps outlined in the `Couchbase-Backed Agent Catalogs`_ section to create prompts.

   - In a multi-team setting, you can also use :code:`agentc find prompt` to see if other team members have
     already created prompts that address your use case.

   - To accelerate prompt building, you can specify your tool requirements in the prompt.
     This will allow Agent Catalog to automatically fetch the tools you need when the prompt is executed.

4. **Agent Execution**: Run your agent system!
   Depending on how your :python:`agentc.Span` instances are configured, you should see logs in the
   :file:`./agent-activity` directory and/or in the ``agent_activity.logs`` collection of your Couchbase instance.

5. **Agent Tuning**: Make changes to your agent system and "register" them with Git + the :code:`agentc`
   command line tool.
   This sample app illustrates how to setup :code:`agentc index` + :code:`agentc publish` as post-commit hooks.
   Try this out yourself by running the commands below:

   .. code-block::

     # This command only needs to be run once.
     pre-commit install --hook-type post-commit --hook-type pre-commit

     # Commit your changes. `agentc index` + `agentc publish` will run after `git commit`.
     git add [CHANGED_FILES]
     git commit -m "My changes"

   For changes that are small and don't warrant a new commit, these hooks will also apply to
   :code:`git commit --amend`.

   .. code-block::

     git add [CHANGED_FILES]
     git commit --amend

   All logs your agent system generates are bound to the Git SHA generated by :code:`git commit`, thus you can
   easily see the changes you've made using :code:`git diff [GIT_SHA_IN_LOGS]`.

Couchbase-Backed Agent Catalogs
-------------------------------

The catalog (currently) versions two types of items: tools and prompts.
Both tool builders and prompt builders (i.e., agent builders) will follow this workflow:

1. **Repository Cloning**: Grab the Git repository + Couchbase bucket that your team is working on and run
   :code:`git clone` + :code:`agentc init --no-db`.
   If you have run the steps in section above (i.e., you are a one-developer team), skip this step.

   .. code-block::

     git clone [MY_TEAMS_APP_REPOSITORY]
     agentc init --no-db

     # Install your post-commit hooks to automatically run "index" + "publish".
     pre-commit install --hook-type post-commit --hook-type pre-commit

2. **Tool/Prompt Creation**: For users with existing Python tools, simply decorate your existing functions with
   the :python:`agentc.catalog.tool` decorator.

   .. code-block:: python

     import agentc

     @agentc.catalog.tool
     def positive_sentiment_analysis_tool(text_to_analyze: str) -> float:
         """ Using the given text, return a number between 0 and 1.
             A value of 0 means the text is not positive.
             A value of 1 means the text is positive.
             A vale of 0.5 means the text is slightly positive. """
        ...

   For users that want to leverage our suite of declarative tools (i.e., semantic search, OpenAPI spec, and SQL++
   tools), use the :code:`agentc add` `command <cli.html#agentc-add>`_ to automatically download the template of your
   choice.

3. **Indexing**: Agent Catalog will be unaware of any changes you make until you run :code:`agentc index`, which will
   crawl a set of directories for tools and prompts.
   For workflows that have :code:`agentc index` installed as a post-commit hook, you should not have to run this
   command manually --- nonetheless, we show the :code:`agentc index` below for some "behind-the-scenes" clarity.

   .. code-block:: bash

     agentc index [DIRECTORY] --prompts/no-prompts --tools/no-tools

   ``[DIRECTORY]`` refers to the directory containing your tools/prompts.

   .. note::

       By default, files and directories ignored by Git via :file:`.gitignore` will also be ignored by
       :code:`agentc index`.
       To accommodate situations where a file should be ignored by :code:`agentc index` **but not** :code:`git`,
       developers can specify an :file:`.agentcignore` file (similar to a :file:`.gitignore` file).
       Agent Catalog will "run" all Python files found during :code:`agentc index` to find Python tools, thus an
       :file:`.agentcignore` file is necessary to ignore executable scripts.

4. **Publishing**: Indexing will populate your *local* catalog with tools and prompts versioned by Git.
   To make your local catalog available as a snapshot that can be JOINed with the logs your agent application generates,
   use the :code:`agentc publish` command.
   For workflows that have :code:`agentc publish` installed as a post-commit hook, you should not have to run this
   command manually --- nonetheless, we show the :code:`agentc publish` below for some "behind-the-scenes" clarity.

   .. code-block::

     # Don't forget to modify your ".env" file appropriately!
     agentc publish

   :code:`agentc publish` *does not* accept local catalogs indexed with a dirty Git repository, therefore make sure
   that :code:`git status` reveals no tracked changes before running :code:`agentc index [DIRECTORY]` +
   :code:`agentc publish`.

5. **Prompt/Tool Tuning**: Changes to your prompts (and less often, your tools) should be registered using Git + the
   :code:`agentc` command line tool.
   If you install :code:`agentc index` and :code:`agentc publish` as post-commit hooks, you will run the
   following *standard* Git commands:

   .. code-block::
     # Commit your changes. `agentc index` + `agentc publish` will run after `git commit`.
     git add [CHANGED_FILES]
     git commit -m "My changes"

   For changes that are small and don't warrant a new commit, these hooks will also apply to
   :code:`git commit --amend`.

   .. code-block::

     git add [CHANGED_FILES]
     git commit --amend

   Again, all logs your agent system generates are bound to the Git SHA generated by :code:`git commit`, thus you can
   easily see the changes you've made using :code:`git diff [GIT_SHA_IN_LOGS]`.

Assessing Agent Quality
-----------------------

The Agent Catalog package also provides a foundation for analyzing agent system performance over a series of Git-backed
changes.
Agent analysts will follow this workflow:

1. **Log Access**: Your first step is to get access to the :python:`agentc.Span` captured logs.
   For logs sent to Couchbase, you can find them in the :file:`agent_activity.logs` collection of your Couchbase
   instance.
   For logs stored locally, you can find them in the :file:`./agent-activity` directory.
   *We recommend the former, as it allows for easy ad-hoc analysis through Couchbase Query and/or Couchbase Analytics.*

2. **Log Transformations**: For users with Couchbase Analytics enabled, we provide the following views (expressed as
   Couchbase Analytics Views) to help you get started with conversational-based agents.
   All Views belong to the scope :file:`agent_activity` and can be queried using the Analytics service by executing
   the following query:

   .. code-block:: sql

        SELECT logs_view.* FROM `[MY_BUCKET]`.agent_activity.`[VIEW_NAME]` AS logs_view;

   Where ``[MY_BUCKET]`` is your Agent Catalog bucket and ``[VIEW_NAME]`` is one of the views given below.

   .. admonition:: Sessions ``(sid, start_t, vid, msgs)``

        The ``Sessions`` view provides one record per session (alt. conversation).
        Each session record contains:

        i) the session ID ``sid``,

        ii) the session start time ``start_t``,

        iii) the catalog version ``vid``, and

        iv) a list of messages ``msgs``.

        The ``msgs`` field details all events that occurred during the session (e.g., the user's messages, the response
        to the user, the internal "thinking" performed by the agent, the agent's transitions between tasks, etc...).
        The latest session can be found by applying the filter:

        .. code-block:: sql

            WHERE sid = `[[MY_BUCKET]]`.agent_activity.LastSession

   .. admonition:: Exchanges ``(sid, question, answer, walk)``

        The ``Exchanges`` view provides one record per exchange (i.e., the period between a user question and an
        assistant response) in a given session.
        Each exchange record contains:

        i) the session ID ``sid``,

        ii) the user's question ``question``,

        iii) the agent's answer ``answer``, and

        iv) the agent's walk ``walk`` (e.g., the messages sent to the LLMs, the tools executed, etc...).

        This view is commonly used as input into frameworks like Ragas.

   .. admonition:: LLMGenerations ``(session, llm_generations)``

        The ``LLMGenerations`` view provides each group of messages generated by the LLM per session.
        Each llm generations record contains:

        i) the session ID ``session`` and

        ii) list of llm generated messages with common grouping id per session ``llm_generations``.

        This view is commonly used to dive deeper into the LLM workings and though process.

   .. admonition:: ToolCalls ``(sid, vid, tool_calls)``

        The ``ToolCalls`` view provides one record per session (alt. conversation).
        Each tool call record contains:

        i) the session ID ``sid``,

        ii) the catalog version ``vid``, and

        iii) a list of tool calls ``tool_calls``.

        The ``tool_calls`` field details all information around an LLM tool call (e.g., the tool name, the tool-call
        arguments, and the tool result).

   .. admonition:: Walks ``(vid, msgs, sid)``

        The ``Walks`` view provides one record per session (alt. conversation).
        This view is essentially the ``Sessions`` view where all ``msgs`` only contain task transitions.


*The next two steps are under active development!*

3. **Log Analysis**: Once you have a grasp how your agent is working, you'll want to move into the realm of
   "quantitative".
   A good starting point is `Ragas <https://docs.ragas.io/en/latest/getstarted/index.html>`_, where you can use the
   Analytics service to serve "datasets" to the Ragas :python:`evaluate` function [1]_.

4. **Log Visualization**: Users are free to define their own views from the steps above and visualize their results
   using dashboards like `Tableau <https://exchange.tableau.com/en-us/products/627>`_ or
   `Grafana <https://developer.couchbase.com/grafana-dashboards>`_ [2]_.

.. [1] Ragas is one of many tools that can be used to analyze agent performance.
       We are actively working on a suite of tools / solutions to help you express assertions (e.g., bounded task
       graph walks) and incorporate various notions of ground truth in your analysis.

.. [2] Stay tuned for more work around log visualization tailored towards agent analysis!
